docs: document ingest storage jsonnet setup (#12749)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/set-up/jsonnet/configure-ingest-storage.md

---
aliases:
  - ../../operators-guide/deploy-grafana-mimir/jsonnet/configure-ingest-storage/
description: Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir ingest storage architecture when using Jsonnet.
menuTitle: Configure ingest storage architecture
title: Configure ingest storage architecture
weight: 20
---

# Configure ingest storage architecture

The [ingest storage](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/get-started/about-grafana-mimir-architecture/) is the next generation architecture of Grafana Mimir. It decouples the Mimir read and write paths using Apache Kafka or a Kafka-compatible backend.

To enable ingest storage, set the following Jsonnet:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    ingest_storage_enabled: true,
  }
}
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
The ingest storage architecture requires a production-grade Apache Kafka cluster or Kafka-compatible backend.
{{< /admonition >}}

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

> The ingest storage architecture requires the requires ruler remote evaluation to be enabled for the Mimir instance.

Author: ```suggestion
The ingest storage architecture requires the ruler remote evaluation to be enabled for the Mimir instance.
```

> Refer to the "[Configure the Grafana Mimir ruler with Jsonnet](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/set-up/jsonnet/configure-ruler/)" documentation for details about the ruler's operational modes.

Author: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Configure the Grafana Mimir ruler with Jsonnet](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/set-up/jsonnet/configure-ruler/) documentation for details about the ruler's operational modes.
```

{{< /admonition >}}

## Kafka connection options

> The jsonnet configures some Kafka connection parameters, by default:

Author: ```suggestion
The jsonnet configures some Kafka connection parameters by default:
```

- **Kafka topic**: `ingest`
- **Auto-created partitions**: 1000 (when topic doesn't exist)
- **Kafka addresses**: `kafka.<namespace>.svc.<cluster_domain>:9092`

To customize the Kafka connection configuration, override the default settings:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    ingest_storage_enabled: true,
  },

  // Override producer and consumer addresses for external Kafka
  ingest_storage_kafka_producer_address:: 'kafka-broker-1:9092,kafka-broker-2:9092',
  ingest_storage_kafka_consumer_address:: 'kafka-broker-1:9092,kafka-broker-2:9092',

  // Override Kafka client configuration
  ingest_storage_kafka_client_args+:: {
    'ingest-storage.kafka.topic': 'mimir-ingest',
    'ingest-storage.kafka.auto-create-topic-default-partitions': 500,
  },
}
```

> The [Configure the Grafana Mimir Kafka backend](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/configure/configure-kafka-backend/) provides more details about available Kafka configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Configure the Grafana Mimir Kafka backend](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/configure/configure-kafka-backend/) documentation provides more details about available Kafka configurations.
```

The configured topic must have at least as many partitions as the number of ingesters in one zone.

> The [Configure the Grafana Mimir Kafka backend](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/configure/configure-kafka-backend/) documentation provides more details about Kafka configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Configure the Grafana Mimir Kafka backend](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/configure/configure-kafka-backend/) for more details about Kafka configurations.
```

## Migration considerations

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

> Migration of a live Grafana Mimir cluster from the classic architecture to the ingest storage is a complex multi-step process, that requires careful planning and execution.

Reviewer: Agreed. We're not providing any migration instructions at the time of release, so it feels a little odd to call out that something is complicated and then not provide any guidance around it.

> For use-cases that allow some downtime, it's simpler to deploy a new Grafana Mimir cluster, that uses ingest storage, and migrate the data from the old cluster to the new one.

Reviewer: This information is really useful, but seems more in-line with the yet-to-come migration instructions. Maybe we should save it for when we provide that content.
